.verb.md, before:

# [{%= name %}][author-www-url] [![npmjs.com][npmjs-img]][npmjs-url] [![The MIT License][license-img]][license-url] [![npm downloads][downloads-img]][downloads-url] 

> {%= description %}

[![standard code style][standard-img]][standard-url] [![travis build status][travis-img]][travis-url] [![coverage status][coveralls-img]][coveralls-url] [![dependency status][david-img]][david-url]

## Install
```
npm i {%= name %} --save
```

## Usage
> For more use-cases see the [tests](./test.js)

```js
const {%= varname %} = require('{%= name %}')
const prevNext = require('{%= name %}-prev-next')

limon
  .use(prevNext())
  .use(function (app) {
    return function (ch, i, input) {
      // console.log('prev is:', this.prev())
      // console.log('next is:', this.next())

      if (/\s/.test(ch)) {
        this.tokens.push(['whitespace', ch, i])
        return
      }
      if (/\W/.test(ch)) {
        this.tokens.push(['symbol', ch, i])
        return
      }
      if (/\d/.test(ch)) {
        this.tokens.push(['digit', ch, i])
        return
      }
      this.tokens.push(['letter', ch, i])
    }
  })

var tokens = limon.tokenize('a > (b + 2)')
console.log(tokens)
// =>
// [ [ 'letter', 'a', 0 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 1 ],
//   [ 'symbol', '>', 2 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 3 ],
//   [ 'symbol', '(', 4 ],
//   [ 'letter', 'b', 5 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 6 ],
//   [ 'symbol', '+', 7 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 8 ],
//   [ 'digit', '2', 9 ],
//   [ 'symbol', ')', 10 ] ]
```

{%= apidocs('index.js') %}

{% if (verb.related && verb.related.list && verb.related.list.length) { %}
## Related
{%= related(verb.related.list, {words: 12}) %}
{% } %}

## Contributing
Pull requests and stars are always welcome. For bugs and feature requests, [please create an issue](https://github.com/{%= repository %}/issues/new).  
But before doing anything, please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines.

## [Charlike Make Reagent](http://j.mp/1stW47C) [![new message to charlike][new-message-img]][new-message-url] [![freenode #charlike][freenode-img]][freenode-url]

[![{%= author.username %}.tk][author-www-img]][author-www-url] [![keybase {%= author.username %}][keybase-img]][keybase-url] [![{%= author.username %} npm][author-npm-img]][author-npm-url] [![{%= author.username %} twitter][author-twitter-img]][author-twitter-url] [![{%= author.username %} github][author-github-img]][author-github-url]

{%= reflinks(verb.reflinks) %}

[npmjs-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/{%= name %}
[npmjs-img]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/{%= name %}.svg?label={%= name %}

[license-url]: https://github.com/{%= repository %}/blob/master/LICENSE
[license-img]: https://img.shields.io/npm/l/{%= name %}.svg

[downloads-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/{%= name %}
[downloads-img]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/{%= name %}.svg

[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/{%= repository %}
[travis-img]: https://img.shields.io/travis/{%= repository %}/master.svg

[coveralls-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/{%= repository %}
[coveralls-img]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/{%= repository %}.svg

[david-url]: https://david-dm.org/{%= repository %}
[david-img]: https://img.shields.io/david/{%= repository %}.svg

[standard-url]: https://github.com/feross/standard
[standard-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg


[author-www-url]: http://www.{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}.tk
[author-www-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/www-{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}.tk-fe7d37.svg

[keybase-url]: https://keybase.io/{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}
[keybase-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/keybase-{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}-8a7967.svg

[author-npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/~{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}
[author-npm-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/npm-~{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}-cb3837.svg

[author-twitter-url]: https://twitter.com/{%= author.username %}
[author-twitter-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@{%= author.username %}-55acee.svg

[author-github-url]: https://github.com/{%= author.username %}
[author-github-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-@{%= author.username %}-4183c4.svg

[freenode-url]: http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=charlike
[freenode-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/freenode-%23charlike-5654a4.svg

[new-message-url]: https://github.com/{%= author.username %}/ama
[new-message-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/ask%20me-anything-green.svg

Commit message:

add links to the examples in readme

.verb.md, after:

# [{%= name %}][author-www-url] [![npmjs.com][npmjs-img]][npmjs-url] [![The MIT License][license-img]][license-url] [![npm downloads][downloads-img]][downloads-url] 

> {%= description %}

[![standard code style][standard-img]][standard-url] [![travis build status][travis-img]][travis-url] [![coverage status][coveralls-img]][coveralls-url] [![dependency status][david-img]][david-url]

## Examples
This is not finished yet, but go to [examples](./examples) directory and look deeply there. :tada:  
We have few initial examples:

- [semver](./examples/semver.js) - tokenize semver string or alike
- [simple](./examples/simple.js) - tokenizing simple math string (`a > (b + 2)`)
- [csv](./examples/csv.js) - tokenize CSV string, and partially parsing
- more upcoming... [going to port](https://github.com/limonjs/limon/issues/7) the [PostCSS Tokenizer](https://github.com/postcss/postcss/blob/master/lib/tokenize.es6)

And finally, after all, benchmarking.

## Install
```
npm i {%= name %} --save
```

## Usage
> For more use-cases see the [tests](./test.js)

```js
const {%= varname %} = require('{%= name %}')
const prevNext = require('{%= name %}-prev-next')

limon
  .use(prevNext())
  .use(function (app) {
    return function (ch, i, input) {
      // console.log('prev is:', this.prev())
      // console.log('next is:', this.next())

      if (/\s/.test(ch)) {
        this.tokens.push(['whitespace', ch, i])
        return
      }
      if (/\W/.test(ch)) {
        this.tokens.push(['symbol', ch, i])
        return
      }
      if (/\d/.test(ch)) {
        this.tokens.push(['digit', ch, i])
        return
      }
      this.tokens.push(['letter', ch, i])
    }
  })

var tokens = limon.tokenize('a > (b + 2)')
console.log(tokens)
// =>
// [ [ 'letter', 'a', 0 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 1 ],
//   [ 'symbol', '>', 2 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 3 ],
//   [ 'symbol', '(', 4 ],
//   [ 'letter', 'b', 5 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 6 ],
//   [ 'symbol', '+', 7 ],
//   [ 'whitespace', ' ', 8 ],
//   [ 'digit', '2', 9 ],
//   [ 'symbol', ')', 10 ] ]
```

{%= apidocs('index.js') %}

{% if (verb.related && verb.related.list && verb.related.list.length) { %}
## Related
{%= related(verb.related.list, {words: 12}) %}
{% } %}

## Contributing
Pull requests and stars are always welcome. For bugs and feature requests, [please create an issue](https://github.com/{%= repository %}/issues/new).  
But before doing anything, please read the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) guidelines.

## [Charlike Make Reagent](http://j.mp/1stW47C) [![new message to charlike][new-message-img]][new-message-url] [![freenode #charlike][freenode-img]][freenode-url]

[![{%= author.username %}.tk][author-www-img]][author-www-url] [![keybase {%= author.username %}][keybase-img]][keybase-url] [![{%= author.username %} npm][author-npm-img]][author-npm-url] [![{%= author.username %} twitter][author-twitter-img]][author-twitter-url] [![{%= author.username %} github][author-github-img]][author-github-url]

{%= reflinks(verb.reflinks) %}

[npmjs-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/{%= name %}
[npmjs-img]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/{%= name %}.svg?label={%= name %}

[license-url]: https://github.com/{%= repository %}/blob/master/LICENSE
[license-img]: https://img.shields.io/npm/l/{%= name %}.svg

[downloads-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/{%= name %}
[downloads-img]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/{%= name %}.svg

[travis-url]: https://travis-ci.org/{%= repository %}
[travis-img]: https://img.shields.io/travis/{%= repository %}/master.svg

[coveralls-url]: https://coveralls.io/r/{%= repository %}
[coveralls-img]: https://img.shields.io/coveralls/{%= repository %}.svg

[david-url]: https://david-dm.org/{%= repository %}
[david-img]: https://img.shields.io/david/{%= repository %}.svg

[standard-url]: https://github.com/feross/standard
[standard-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-standard-brightgreen.svg


[author-www-url]: http://www.{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}.tk
[author-www-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/www-{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}.tk-fe7d37.svg

[keybase-url]: https://keybase.io/{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}
[keybase-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/keybase-{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}-8a7967.svg

[author-npm-url]: https://www.npmjs.com/~{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}
[author-npm-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/npm-~{%= author.username.toLowerCase() %}-cb3837.svg

[author-twitter-url]: https://twitter.com/{%= author.username %}
[author-twitter-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-@{%= author.username %}-55acee.svg

[author-github-url]: https://github.com/{%= author.username %}
[author-github-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/github-@{%= author.username %}-4183c4.svg

[freenode-url]: http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=charlike
[freenode-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/freenode-%23charlike-5654a4.svg

[new-message-url]: https://github.com/{%= author.username %}/ama
[new-message-img]: https://img.shields.io/badge/ask%20me-anything-green.svg
